Faas tutorial (#208)
Genez-io/genezio-documentation: docs/tutorials/how-to-deploy-a-serverless-function.md

5. **Reduced Management Overhead**: Focus on developing your app instead of managing servers and routine maintenance tasks.
6. **Easy Migration**: Obtain all these advantages with minimal code changes.

### How Does Genezio Handle High Traffic?

Genezio, being a Function as a Service (FaaS) platform, automatically scales your application based on traffic demands. It works by executing functions in response to events and can handle a large number of requests concurrently. This ensures your app remains responsive and performs well during traffic spikes.

## Prerequisites

### 1. Install genezio

Use your preferred package manager to install genezio:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem className="tab-item" value="npm" label="npm">
<div id="step1-install-npm">
  ```
  npm install genezio -g
  ```
  </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem className="tab-item" value="pnpm" label="pnpm">
  <div id="step1-install-pnpm">
  ```
  pnpm add -g genezio
  ```
  </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem  className="tab-item" value="yarn" label="yarn">
  <div id="step1-install-yarn">
  ```
  yarn add global genezio
  ```
  </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### 2. Ensure you have a Node.js Function handler
> 
> If you don't have a Node.js function handler, you can create one using the following steps:

Reviewer: Let's change this tutorial to be more focused on creating and deploying a function, rather than migrating from X cloud provider to Genezio.

For this, I would do the following changes:
```suggestion
### 2. Export a function handler

You can implement and export a function handler following the next steps:
```

<details>

>   <summary>**Create a Hello World Serverless Function handler**</summary>

Reviewer: Remove this summary, we would like for the user to actually see the code to understand how to export this handler in his code.

### 1. Initialize a New Node.js Project

Run the following command to initialize a new Node.js project in an empty directory:

```bash
npm init -y
```

### 2. Create a Function handler

<Tabs>
<TabItem className="tab-item" value="esm" label="esm">
Create a new file named `app.mjs` and add the following code:
<div>
```javascript title="app.mjs"

> export const handler = async (event) => {
>   console.log('Function was called');
>   let name = event.queryStringParameters?.name || 'World';
>   return {
>     statusCode: 200,
>     body: `Hello ${name} from serverless function!`,
>   };
> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export const handler = async (event) => {
  console.log('Function was called);
  const name = event.queryStringParameters?.name || 'George';
  return {
    statusCode: 200,
    body: `Hello, ${name}! Welcome to Genezio Functions!`,
  };
};
```

```

  </div>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem className="tab-item" value="cjs" label="cjs">
  Create a new file named `app.js` and add the following code:
  <div>

>   ```javascript title="app.js"
>   exports.handler = async (event) => {
>     console.log("Function was called");
>     let name = event.queryStringParameters?.name || "World";
>     return {
>       statusCode: 200,
>       body: `Hello ${name} from serverless function!`,
>     };
>   };
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```javascript title="app.js"
  exports.handler = async (event) => {
    console.log("Function was called");
    const name = event.queryStringParameters?.name || "George";
    return {
      statusCode: 200,
      body: `Hello, ${name}! Welcome to Genezio Functions!`,
    };
  };
    ```
```

  </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> </details>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      entry: app.mjs
```

This configuration file specifies the project name, deployment region, and details about the backend.

## 4. Test Your App Locally

Before deploying your app, you can test it locally to ensure it's working correctly.

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
genezio local
```

In your terminal, you should be able to see all the local URLs of your functions. You can then test them in your browser or using a tool like Postman.

## 5. Deploy your project

Finally, deploy your project. A browser window will open, and you will be prompted to log in to your Genezio account and authorize the CLI to make the deployment.
Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
genezio deploy
```

If your application use environment variables, you can deploy them using the following command:

```bash
genezio deploy --env <path-to-your-env-file>
```

:::info
You need to deploy your environment variables single time.
After that, you can deploy your project without the `--env` flag.
:::
For more information about environment variables, you can check the [official documentation](/docs/project-structure/backend-envinronment-variables.md).

> ## Test your app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Check the deployed app
```

> After deploying your application, you can test it to ensure it's running correctly. To verify that your functions are working, open a web browser and navigate to the URL provided for your deployed function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying your application, you can visit it by navigating to the the URL provided either in the terminal or in the Genezio dashboard. The URL can be copied from the corresponding project's overview page.
```

> This URL can be found in the deployment output under the `Functions Deployed` section.

Reviewer: I would remove this, I cannot find a "Function Deployed" section in the dashboard.

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# How to Deploy a Serverless Function

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to deploy a function using Genezio, a serverless deployment platform that simplifies app management and reduces costs. We'll cover the benefits, answer common questions, and provide detailed deployment steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to deploy functions or serverless workloads on Genezio. We'll cover the benefits, answer common questions, and provide detailed deployment steps.

Genezio is a Function-as-a-Service (FaaS) platform that simplifies cloud deployments and significantly reduces infrastructure costs.
```

**Do I Need to Modify My Function's Code?** Just make sure that your code is written according to the AWS Lambda Handler guide. [Read more](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/nodejs-handler.html)

> 

Reviewer: This sentence is too tightly coupled with `AWS Lambda`.

To write a Genezio Function, the user has to set a `handler` and this is more or less the same idea for 
In the future, we plan to support easy migration from other cloud providers, too, so we don't want our user to be biased towards AWS technologies.

My suggestion is to either remove this sentence, or change it to:
```
**Do I need to modify my source code?** Make sure you export your function as a `handler` that will process events. Check out <section> to see a code snippet.

:::info

1. You might need to replace the `entry` field with the name of your main application file.
2. You might need to replace the `path` field with the path relative at **genezio.yaml** file.
3. This example configuration works if **genezio.yaml** is in the same directory as your main application file.
   :::

```yaml title="genezio.yaml"
# The name of the project.
name: functions-app
# The region where the project is deployed. Available regions: us-east-1, eu-central-1
region: us-east-1
# The version of the Genezio YAML configuration to parse.
yamlVersion: 2
backend:
  # The root directory of the backend.
  path: ./
  # Information about the backend's programming language.
  language:
    # The name of the programming language.
    name: js
    # The package manager used by the backend.
    packageManager: npm
  # Information about the backend's functions.
  functions:
    # The name (label) of the function.
    - name: hello-world-function
      # The path to the function's code.
      path: ./
      # The name of the function handler
      handler: handler
      # The entry point for the function.
      entry: app.mjs
      # The compatibility of the function handler.

>       type: aws

Reviewer: I believe you can remove this `type` field. From the following CLI release, `aws` will be the default value.
It's not necessary to explicitly add it.
